Aspcore guidance 2275 (#7772)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/platforms/dotnet/guides/aspnetcore/index.mdx

## Overview of the features

- Single line ASP.NET Core integration: `UseSentry`
- Capture unhandled exceptions and exceptions with [custom exception handlers](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/fundamentals/error-handling?view=aspnetcore-7.0#exception-handler-page)
- Capture `LogError` or `LogCritical`
- Any event sent will include relevant application log messages
- Automatically capture request info, browser details, ServerOS and Runtime info, release information etc.

> - Capture Request headers and, if you opt in, Request payload

Reviewer: Was this capitalization intentional?

```suggestion
- Capture request headers and, if you opt in, request payload
```

This package extends [Sentry.Extensions.Logging](/platforms/dotnet/guides/extensions-logging/). This means that besides the ASP.NET Core related features, through this package you'll also get access to all the framework's logging integration and also the features available in the main [Sentry](/platforms/dotnet/) SDK.

## Initialize

> The simplest way to initialise Sentry is ASP.NET Core is by using the `UseSentry` extension method from the `Sentry.AspNetCore` package in conjunction with the [framework configuration system](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/fundamentals/configuration/?view=aspnetcore-7.0).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The simplest way to initialize Sentry is ASP.NET Core is by using the `UseSentry` extension method from the `Sentry.AspNetCore` package in conjunction with the [framework configuration system](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/fundamentals/configuration/?view=aspnetcore-7.0).
```

> The simplest way to initialize Sentry is ASP.NET Core is by using the `UseSentry` extension method from the `Sentry.AspNetCore` package in conjunction with the [framework configuration system](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/fundamentals/configuration/?view=aspnetcore-7.0).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The simplest way to initialize Sentry in ASP.NET Core is by using the `UseSentry` extension method from the `Sentry.AspNetCore` package in conjunction with the [framework configuration system](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/fundamentals/configuration/?view=aspnetcore-7.0).
```

        )
```

### ASP.NET Core 2.x

```csharp
public static IWebHost BuildWebHost(string[] args) =>
    WebHost.CreateDefaultBuilder(args)
        // Add the following line:
        .UseSentry()
```

```fsharp
let CreateHostBuilder args =
    WebHost.CreateDefaultBuilder(args)
        // Add the following line:
        .UseSentry()
```

## Configure

> The framework takes configuration settings from `appsettings.json`, environment variables or from code. These settings get applied to `Sentry.AspNetCore.SentryAspNetCoreOptions`, which extends `Sentry.Extensions.Logging.SentryLoggingOptions`, which in turn extends `Sentry.SentryOptions`. This means options for `Sentry.AspNetCore` as well as all the inner packages are available to be configured through the configuration system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The framework takes configuration settings from `appsettings.json`, environment variables, or from code. These settings get applied to `Sentry.AspNetCore.SentryAspNetCoreOptions`, which extends `Sentry.Extensions.Logging.SentryLoggingOptions`, which in turn extends `Sentry.SentryOptions`. This means options for `Sentry.AspNetCore` as well as all the inner packages are available to be configured through the configuration system.
```

### appsettings.json

An example of some of the options that can be configured via `appsettings.json`:

<SignInNote />

```json {filename:appsettings.json}
  "Sentry": {
    "Dsn": "___PUBLIC_DSN___",
    "SendDefaultPii": true,
    "MaxRequestBodySize": "Always",
    "MinimumBreadcrumbLevel": "Debug",
    "MinimumEventLevel": "Warning",
    "AttachStackTrace": true,
    "Debug": true,
    "DiagnosticsLevel": "Error",
    "TracesSampleRate": 1.0
  },
```

> Note setting `TracesSampleRate` to `1.0` in this example configures Sentry to capture 100% of transactions for performance monitoring. We recommend adjusting this value in production. See <PlatformLink to="/performance/instrumentation/automatic-instrumentation">Automatic Instrumentation</PlatformLink> for further information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Setting `TracesSampleRate` to `1.0` in this example configures Sentry to capture 100% of transactions for performance monitoring. We recommend adjusting this value in production. See <PlatformLink to="/performance/instrumentation/automatic-instrumentation">Automatic Instrumentation</PlatformLink> for further information.
```

### Environment variables

It's also possible to bind properties to the SDK via environment variables, like:

```shell {tabTitle:Windows}
set Sentry__Debug=true
```

```shell {tabTitle:Linux or macOS}

> export Sentry__Debug=true

Reviewer: Was this supposed to have 2 underscores?

```suggestion
export Sentry_Debug=true
```

Author: > Was this supposed to have 2 underscores?

Hey @shanamatthews,

Yes it is... the .NET configuration system uses double underscores instead of `:` when setting configuration properties from environment variables ([see docs](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/fundamentals/configuration/?view=aspnetcore-7.0#evcp)):

> The `:` separator doesn't work with environment variable hierarchical keys on all platforms. `__`, the double underscore, is:
>
> * Supported by all platforms. For example, the `:` separator is not supported by [Bash](https://linuxhint.com/bash-environment-variables/), but `__` is.
> * Automatically replaced by a `:`

```

ASP.NET Core will automatically read this environment variable and bind it to the SDK configuration object.

### Using code

> Finally, any settings that can be configured via `appsettings.json` or environment variables can also be configured via code and some settings must be configured in code, such as the `BeforeSend` callback:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, any settings that can be configured via `appsettings.json` or environment variables can also be configured via code. Some settings can only be configured in code, such as the `BeforeSend` callback:
```

```fsharp
.UseSentry (fun options ->

>     options.TracesSampleRate <- 1.0   // <- Set this to configure automatic traci

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    options.TracesSampleRate <- 1.0   // <- Set this to configure automatic tracing
```
